Data Warehouse
What is Data Warehouse?
• A Data Warehouse collects and manages data from varied sources to
provide meaningful business insights.
• It is a collection of data which is separate from the operational
systems and supports the decision making of the company.
• In Data Warehouse data is stored from a historical perspective.

Data Warehouse
What is Data Warehouse?
• The data in the warehouse is extracted from multiple functional units. It is
checked, cleansed and then integrated with Data warehouse system.
• Data warehouse used a very fast computer system having large storage
capacity.
• This tool can answer any complex queries relating data.

Data Mart
What is Data Mart?
• A data mart is a simple form of a Data Warehouse. It is focused on a
single subject.
• Data Mart draws data from only a few sources. These sources may be
central Data warehouse, internal operational systems, or external
data sources.
What is Data Mart?
• A Data Mart is an index and extraction system. It is an important subset of a
data warehouse.
• It is subject-oriented, and it is designed to meet the needs of a specific group
of users.
• When compared Data Mart vs Data Warehouse, Data marts are fast and easy
to use, as they make use of small amounts of data.

Data Warehouse vs Data Mart
KEY DIFFERENCE
Data Warehouse Data Mart
• Large repository of data collected from different
sources
• Only subtype of a data warehouse
• Focused on all departments in an organization • Focuses on a specific group
• Designing process is complicated • Process is easy to design
• Takes a long time for data handling • Takes a short time for data handling
• Size range is 100 GB to 1 TB+ • Size is less than 100 GB
• Implementation process takes 1 month to 1 year • Takes a few months to complete the
implementation process

/*
Differences between Data Warehouse and Data
Mart
Parameter Data Warehouse Data Mart
Definition A Data Warehouse is a large repository of
data collected from different organizations or
departments within a corporation.
A data mart is an only subtype of a
Data Warehouse. It is designed to
meet the need of a certain user
group.
Usage It helps to take a strategic decision. It helps to take tactical decisions for
the business.
Objective The main objective of Data Warehouse is to
provide an integrated environment and
coherent picture of the business at a point in
time.
A data mart mostly used in a
business division at the department
level.
Designing The designing process of Data Warehouse is
quite difficult.
The designing process of Data Mart
is easy.
May or may not use in a dimensional model.
However, it can feed dimensional models.
It is built focused on a dimensional
model using a start schema.
*/